foreign
[Music]
Factor POI sharing with you the love of
poi spinning and flowers to benefit your
body and brain and today we're diving
into some video science oh boy but
before we dive in I just want to give a
quick shout out to the Friends of the
channel big thanks to dark monk fire
Mecca flow fests flow toys juggling
calling pyro Terra light toys spin balls
and Ultra POI for helping to make the
videos on this channel possible you can
learn more about all these amazing
businesses and what they're doing to
support flow artists like yourself by
checking out the links that I've got
down in the description of this video
and special thanks to non-business
friends of the channel Johnny Howard
Lane machinsky and Becca beckonen thank
you all so very much for your support
from my work and my mission hey y'all so
this is my friend Mufasa we've known
each other for uh eight nine years now
eight years now wow time flies goodness
it really does
um so we've done a lot of flow in that
time and more recently we've been making
regular projects out of uh shooting
videos with tracking shots that is uh
one or both of us walking around with a
moving camera the way that most of those
get accomplished is with a little device
called the gimbal now the cool thing is
is that at this point I've managed to
collect several different options for
gimbals ranging from cell phone gimbals
to the handheld one that I'm using right
now to a bigger one that gets used with
my mirrorless Sony camera it's a workout
it is a workout unfortunately we're
always covered with sweat after doing
that
um so we were kind of curious like for
those of you out there that want to get
those shots yourselves what is the best
option in terms of price in terms of
getting the shots that you want and
um so we have decided to take it upon
ourselves to do a whole bunch of flow
with a whole bunch of tracking shots to
help you make those choices
yeah so here's the options we're going
to be testing out today number one we're
actually just going to be testing out my
iPhone 11 Pro the reason for this is
that the most recent iPhones actually
have stabilizers built into them uh
namely they move around their lenses as
they get moved around
um it's not a perfect solution but it
definitely makes the footage a lot more
stable than it would be otherwise number
two we're also going to test out that
iPhone 11 on a Gimbal and specifically a
giant cradle that I acquired a number of
years ago
um in theory this is going to help
smooth out some of those wrinkles with
the iPhone even more and because this is
such a lightweight solution it's also a
really really portable one too option
number three we're going to play around
with my brand new DJI osmo pocket 2. now
this is definitely the lightest and
smallest gimbal that I have ever used
and I'm real curious to see how it's
going to handle both low light as well
as some of the faster tracking shots
that we've done in the past next next up
we're going to pull an old option out of
storage that is my glidecam I used to
use this more frequently but it requires
a lot of training to use it right I've
seen some videos online of people using
it in ways that quite frankly were
shockingly smooth to me so I figure hey
maybe we can get some good results out
of it too and finally we're going to use
my moza Air 2 with my mirrorless Sony
camera this is what we usually use when
we go out and film those traveling
tracking shot videos it's also
incredibly heavy and I'll be really
curious to see how the lighter options
stack up all right so here's our
methodology we have three specific types
of shots that we usually do in the
course of these videos those types are
long tracking shots where we're just
moving in a linear fashion along a
sidewalk or a street we also do circular
shots where we are rotating around each
other sometimes the performers at the
center sometimes the cameras at the
center and finally a shot that I like to
call the V which if you have seen any
Dance videos on Instagram you have seen
this at work it involves pulling in and
out with the camera work finally we're
going to go ahead and try out each of
these Solutions with fire I'm really
really curious to see how all these
different cameras are going to stack up
all right so Mufasa and I are gonna head
outside and get started on this come
with us
[Music]
foreign
goodness gracious this has been an
exhausting night but I wanted to give
props right quick to Ed here because
he's been our safety all night and has
been a lifesaver and an absolute Trooper
as we've been doing all these Burns
thank you so much for your help Ed
you're horrible
Wicked all right see you guys back
inside hey friends so we are back
indoors I've edited together the clips
that we recorded and we're gonna go
through and uh review them uh according
to different shots and uh we're gonna
see which versions of these shots that
we like the most yeah probably should
have made some popcorn I know right that
would have been smart of us yeah next
time next time cool all right so this is
our traveling shots shot number one this
first one is with the iPhone
it's pretty jerky I'm not gonna lie
every once in a while do you see how it
kind of like stutters for a second there
yeah I know now that you mentioned that
it's like a little quality of the strips
yeah the colors are great though the
color response is fantastic
I know that guy yeah I feel like I'm not
saying that Jitter is much here but uh I
was gonna say like definitely smooth
frame rate with this yeah definitely
yeah I think that this would be
Instagram worthy Okay cool so this is
now with the iPhone gimbal this is super
smooth yeah the only thing I'm noticing
here is like it's a little bit more of a
challenge to keep the performer in the
center of the yeah and the center of the
frame okay so this is the the DJI pocket
too so the colors really pop here
like this is this is a very very
saturated picture
it's also really really smooth and if
I'm not mistaken like
I think that we're having a slightly
easier time keeping me in Center frame
the wide angle lens is interesting you
see how we're catching more of the
background than we did with the iPhone
yeah I was gonna say I feel like with
this one it's almost like we're just
like a window or look into the actual
environment yeah definitely but goodness
this is even smoother than the iPhone uh
gimbal like you cannot I'm looking at
the edges and I feel like you can't even
see the steps as they're happening you
know it just feels like it feels
continuous oh yes and this this is the
uh that this is the uh the Glide cam
and it is all over them you can tell it
needs to be adjusted a little bit
well was this before or after we had
made the adjustments to it it was after
that's right yeah it was a lot longer
before then yeah I actually didn't even
bother to include that footage
yeah oh yeah so this is now the moza air
2. okay look at the edges you can really
really see the person stepping as they
are yeah it's like up and down of it
yeah honestly see these videos with the
general it kind of reminds me of those
early 90s music videos I could see that
okay so for the tracking shot yeah
what's your favorite here not the second
camera but the third one was a higher
quality shot so that's the DJI osmo
Pockets yeah yeah now let's have like
the more the colors in the backgrounds
yeah the colors were way more saturated
than that one so I think for me it's
honestly a toss-up between uh the the
giant Gimbal and the DJI gimbal I just
agree on that one too yeah cool well
let's look at circular shots next shall
we oh boy and this is just with the
iPhone 11 in frame this is so jerky
yeah that so like as soon as you're not
walking in a straight line the Jitters
become way more obvious with the iPhone
uh this is the iPhone with the jeon
gimbal
but yeah better yeah again you notice
how we're having a hard time keeping the
performer in the center so I really feel
like it was a matter of like a camera
person following like a set half yeah it
would make it a lot smoother as far as
going around in the circle so this is
definitely more on the camera person
than it is on the technology yeah this
is now the DJI osmo okay
I can I can also see the steps that the
person yeah
this is nice and smooth I like this
yeah you're a good job thank you uh this
now is the uh glidecam
I'm really shocked by how that well that
one's holding up and then this now is
the moza air 2. and yeah I can I can
definitely see the steps happening here
this
it's it's really surprising to me both
this and the last one the moza Air 2 is
really jerky it's almost like doing it
with just the cell phone you know yeah
although like you note that uh we're
both having an easier time keeping the
subject in the center of the frame with
the moza air 2. yeah all right so what
what what's your favorite out of all
there is it the moza I'm inclined to see
if Mendoza because you can barely tell
like the steps from the circle in the
former yeah I think honestly my my
winner here is uh is the DJI osmo again
all right let's take a look at these
this is just in camera with the iPhone
this is also the kind of shot that like
when you see this in dance videos they
are using extremely expensive gimbals
for this yeah okay so this is the iPhone
with the gimbal it's not tracking very
quickly but less jerky yeah so much less
jerky but like keeping it on the subject
it appears to be quite difficult oh no
this is the osmo excuse me
the last one was still the iPhone with
the gimbal yeah it's having some some
troubles tracking like right at the
center point there too uh this is the
glidecam glidecam actually did not do
badly here no surprisingly so this might
be the first time I've seen the Glide
game you're like okay maybe all right
and this is the moza air 2. huh the Air
2 is actually doing really good here I
was just about to say Moses might be it
for me again yeah yeah the Moses doing a
great job of keeping the performer and
center and it's smooth enough it's
smooth enough like it's not super jerky
all right so what's your favorite there
that was a gun for me I would have to
say yeah I I think I'm gonna have to
agree with you here the moza was
definitely the winner in that part of
the challenge there too is that you're
trying to track something really really
quickly and the most is just doing a
great job of adjusting on the Fly Okay
cool so next up we're gonna check out
some fire footage it happens at night so
we're having to deal with uh difference
in the size of sensors where both the uh
osmo as well as the iPhone have smaller
sensor sizes so they're not going to be
as good in the dark whereas the uh Sony
the um the mirrorless camera has a much
bigger sensor and so in theory it should
handle this better this is just the
iPhone in camera it's jerky but I'm not
gonna lie the the lighting here isn't
terrible you clearly see me and also see
the fire clearly yeah the only thing I'm
noticing is that there's a lot of noise
in the picture like look at if I were to
oh yeah I'm seeing what you're saying
like well yeah do you see how like
especially on the edges of you it gets a
little blocky in some parts yeah so I'm
seeing the double fires in the
background sort of that's oh you're
right that's not what I was talking
we're seeing lens artifacts here yeah so
this is the iPhone with
um the giant gimbal it's much smoother
but we're still getting those artifacts
but as far as movement though this one's
less yeah this this one's much smoother
yeah okay so this is the out the osmo
this is super smooth I was gonna say I
don't see the lens ghosts nope I don't
see the lens ghost either so as far as
video quality I like this one better
yeah we're getting more detail than we
did with the iPhone but um oh wow that's
fascinating so you can actually see the
texture of the pavement
yeah and the lighting is still really
good yeah this I'm I'm actually
impressed the the quality here I think
is actually better than the iPhone so
look when the fire is really really
close to me do you see how blown out yep
I am that that's the only thing I'm
noticing aside from that though the
motion's great the detail is great
the lighting for the most part's pretty
good really good yeah I think that this
is now the um the glidecam
which like you can see it tilting around
very well yeah as I go around
interestingly enough I don't see as much
detail I see some detail in the pavement
which is interesting because this should
be the camera that has the best
performance in terms of its sensor it
gets to a point where the fire oh
there's ghosting we'll go back real
quick where the fire was close to me
kind of how it was for you because I
want to see how that affects on me now
sure because do you see what you mean
about
when the fire is close the way the light
effects yeah yeah it kind of see what
you're saying now like how it is on my
clothes even yeah I think like whatever
was on your shirt is going up but in
terms of your face and your arms I still
feel like I'm seeing a lot of detail
there
whereas I think if I try and yeah see
I'm just like totally blunt light skin
light mask versus back Mass dark skin
so friends evaluate this one
appropriately for yourself and your
friends unbiased approach if you can
indeed indeed the with the Sony camera I
can control what the exposure level is
so I very deliberately put it at an
exposure level where it was going to
perform similarly to what the iPhone was
so that might be part of why stuff is
getting blown out a little bit here yeah
so the glidecam is an absolute disaster
so this is the moza air 2. okay I want
some of you here yeah every now and then
I feel like I'm seeing a ghost trial but
I don't think so yeah oh there was one
yeah okay so I'm not going crazy yeah so
there's a little bit of ghosting there
okay so fire I honestly don't think that
there is one here that like looks
amazing I like you know I I think that
to get a really incredible shot with
this it would involve having some better
LED panels I think it would involve
um controlling for exposure a little bit
it more absolutely really dialing that
in with the good quality camera but
based upon what we're seeing here which
one is your favorite I feel like the DX
so drone is that again I keep blanking
the
no not bad DX um the DJI thank you yeah
I think that might be my favorite one
both in terms of like quality it was
really hard to see the whole glares on
the lenses and we were able to see a lot
of details as far as like the ground the
background even like on our person as
well yeah um I would agree with that I
think that
um I'm really surprised by how well the
osmo did especially given how small the
sensor is yeah yeah so overall oh we've
now seen all these different cameras
working in four different environments
um which one was your favorite camera
overall I am impartial to the Broad
Sword and you know what I'm talking
about in that regard
he likes to refer the G to uh to to the
mosa Air 2 as the broad store because it
is it is Hefty I think all around
um I I recommend the osmo I'm really
really surprised at how well it held
down in all of these tests the only
place where I think it fell at all short
was on doing those V's but
um I I would imagine that there's some
ways to compensate for that clearly if
you want to get great fire footage
invest in a camera that has a big sensor
and like go all out on that stuff go go
with good lighting and all that too well
cool Mufasa it has been such a pleasure
going on this uh Journey with you I hope
that you all out there uh got something
useful out of this and something that
will help you in your own work as uh
content creators and flow artists uh
Mufasa where can people find you online
well you can find me on Instagram and
YouTube at Fuego Manza outstanding and
uh Mufasa is going to have a copy of all
the footage that we shot for this so
some of it is likely to show up on on
there at some point some of it's likely
to show up on my Instagram as well
um yeah Mufasa thank you so much thank
you as well this is fun yeah this was
very fun
[Music]
hey friends if you got anything out of
this video please make sure to like
comment share and subscribe both to help
other people find the video as well as
to help my channel grow this video would
not be possible were it not for the
wonderful support of all of these lovely
people right here these are my flow
patrons over on patreon and they along
with the people listed down in the
description helps make this video and
all the videos on this channel possible
thank you all so very much for your
support
um if you like the videos that I produce
and you're not currently a supporter and
you would like to become one you can do
that by heading on over to patreon.com
drexfactor POI and signing up you can do
that either at the link down in the
description or the card that just popped
up if you're watching on YouTube there
you can get access to a whole host of
awesome rewards and even better you'll
be helping me out on my mission of
trying to bring flow arts and POI
spinning to The Wider world and helping
people connect with their brains and
their bodies thank you in advance for
doing that if you'd like to check out
more videos that Mufasa and I have
collaborated on I will go ahead and
leave a link to a playlist of them down
down in the description as well as up on
screen if you're watching on YouTube
also the YouTube algorithm thinks that
you're going to really like this top
video so you might want to check that
out as well thank you so much for
watching have yourselves a great week
and uh more than likely you'll see the
two of us back again before too long
with a new collaboration so be on the
lookout for that have a good one get
your flow on and I'll see you soon peace